# WinAPI

### 1.

#### א. What is the Win32 API?

The Win32 API is a collection of core windows APIs for C programming. Win32 API gives programmers an interface to work with many of the windows OS facilities, like:

* Files         (CreateFile - fileapi.h)
* Processes     (OpenProcess - processthreadsapi.h)
* Networking    (Socket - Winsock2.h)

And more!

The api splits into 8 main categories (base services, Adv services, Graphics, UI, dialog box, Adv control, shell and Networking), from the DLLs kernel32.dll, user32.dll and gdi32.dll as it's core and it was firstly introduces on Windows NT.

**how does it works**
The entire API is made ip of a lot of different function scattered `among (us?)` different DLLs that come by default with Windows. To use a function just include the needed header, like `<winsock2.h>` for windows socketing functions and data structures.

 
#### ב. What is MSDN?

MSDN (MicroSoft Developer network) is a free subscription based service that microsoft platform developers can use to gain insight and knowledge. Developers can use MSDN to find sample code, code libraries, get help from technical support and various microsoft development products.

MSDN was founded in 1992, however, it was later renamed to **Visual Studio Subscirptions**.

The MSDN subscription didn't only give you the tools to develop on Microsoft platforms, as an added benefit it also assisted developers who were working on other platforms such as Java and MacOs.


#### ג. Unicode VS. ASCII, and how does it come to light in C?

Both Unicode and Ascii exist to perform the same function, and that is easily standadize the way special characters are kept. And that was it to use character encoding, encoding a character simply means giving it a number that represents it. ASCII came before Unicode, and it can encode 128 english and special characters. Unicode does the exact same thing, however it exists to serve as a standard for every character there is using more than 1 byte, as the amount of charcater grew Unicode dedicated more bytes to represent each letter (UTF-8, UTF-16 and UTF-32 or 1 byte, 2 bytes and 4 bytes). Infact the first 128 characters in Unicode are the ASCII ones, meaning that ASCII is a subset of Unicode.

Out of the box C only supports 8 bit characters, that means you can only print ASCII characters. so in order to print 32 and 64 bit character there is a need to use special encoding and functions explained [here](https://linuxhint.com/unicode-c/#:~:text=Unicode%20in%20C%201%20Syntax:%20To%20print%20a,We%20discussed%20about%20unicoding%20in%20this%20article.%20).


#### ד. The meaning of `typedef` in C
The C language provides a keyword called `typedef` wich can be use to give existing native/custom structs new names. 

Like, instead of using a fully `struct` name to declare a new `struct` variable:
```
struct newStruct{
int someInfo;
char* moreInfo;
float anothermember;
};

struct newStruct thisnewStruct = ...;
```

We can use:
```
typedef struct newStruct{
int someInfo;
char* moreInfo;
float anothermember;
} newStructName;

newStructName thisnewStruct = ...;
```


#### ה. What is the `windows.h` header?
The `windows.h` header contains the most used [data structures], [functions] and [headers] from the Win32 API, this in turn makes it way easier to include all the functions and structs you need from the WinAPI to your program!!

headers may contain byt not limited to:
* `<windef.h>`
* `<winbase.h>`
* `<wingdi.h>`
* `<winuser.h>`

Macros:
* Min(a, b);
* Max(a, b);

You also have the option to define macros that enable or disable the inclusion of certein macros or headers.