# WinAPI

### 3.

#### א. What is the difference between `char` and `wchar`? And what's the difference between `wcslen()` to `strlen()`?

In C the `char` data type uses 1 byte to represent a character, that is 8 bits. But what happens when we want to use a character from the Unicode standard that needs more than 1 byte to represent itself? The answer is pretty simple, impelement another data type, And that is `wchar`.
`wchar` stand for [Wide Character], it uses 2 bytes to represent each character. However that creates another problem, the string manipulation functions that exist in the `stdio.h` header can only deal with characters that are 1 byte(s) long. What do we do now?

The answer is quite simple again, just implement functions that can deal with 2 byte long characters, such as `wcslen()`.. "Wide character string length". That distinction exists in most integrated C functions that use strings, there simple exist two (sometimes more) version of the function. 1 that can deal with **ascii** characters (1 byte char) and another that can deal with **unicode** characters (2 or more byte characters). Though in reality to save on space the only real function is the Unicode one and the Ascii one simply translates the Ansii string to Unicode and then runs the Unicode function. 


#### ב. What is a `C macro` and what is it's usage?

A `macrro` in the C language is a feature of the precompiler that lets you define a *key* and all proceeding appearances of that *key* in the code will be replaced by a given value. For example:

#define *name replacement*

will replace all the appearances of the "variable" **name** with **replacement**.
**Note**: the program does not allocate *name* with any memory, that is because *name* is note a variable but a substitution key for the pre-compiler to replace with the substitution value.

The scope of a `#define`d macro is from the line of definition to the end of the source file and the macro name has to be used explicitly for it to be replaced. macros can take arguments as well and perform logic operations.


#### ג. What is [F = ma]?

Also known as "Newton's second law of motion" which describes what happens when a force is applied onto a object, this is a continuation of Newton's first law of motion:

*"And object will preserve it's state of motion unless acted unton by some external ***force***"*

The second law says that the force (**F**) is equal to the acceleration (**a**) muliplied by the mass of the object (**m**), it means that the acceleration of an object is **directly proportional to the applied force**. It is a very powerful law as it can be applied universally to any force and can even be used to calculate the mass of stars.


#### ד. What is a `TCHAR`?

A `TCHAR` is a macro for dynamic data type allocation to the given value using the `_UNICODE` macro. The macro looks like this:

```
#ifdef _UNICODE
typedef wchar_t TCHAR;
#else
typedef char TCHAR;
#endif
```

It lets a developer program a more universal, less error prone program that can deal with more ascii and uncode character sets depending on the character set it was compiled with.


#### ה. What is a `LPWSTR`?

`LPWSTR` is just a typedef name give to *wide char string*, it is a [**Long Pointer** (to a) **Wide Character String**].

`typedef WCHAR* LPWSTR;`